This is Dr. Abbey, I'm a psychologist, and we have a problem. Existing research is abundantly clear that implementation of executive functioning interventions targeting the three main cognitive domains ruling over executive functioning work. Well-developed EF is correlated with long-term success in academics, higher socioeconomic status, and aspects of positive citizenship. But teacher preparation programs don't teach teachers what executive functioning is, how it impacts learning, and how to intervene on deficits within it. Parenting courses that I'm aware of are few and far between in teaching these skills, and very few therapists or coaching programs address how to develop EF in adulthood. And certainly those programs for teachers, parents, or adults that do exist are not accessible to the masses. My TikTok started as an attempt to address that social issue. So what is EF? EFs are the interrelated cognitive abilities that rule over a set of skills housed within the prefrontal cortex. They're involved in both the planning, initiating, and carrying out of certain goals despite environmental interruption or distraction. So think task initiation, perseverance, flexibility, and thinking, inhibiting automatic response, emotional regulation. To be an executive function skill, it is both conscious, so done on purpose, and goal-directed, done for a reason. What does it mean to have good EF? These are the people who can apply knowledge to new situations, resist automatic response, who can respond in socially desirable ways even when unexpected challenges arise. There are three main neurological domains that rule over EF. Inhibitory control, so listen despite a blaring train horn, sit when expected to sit, don't blurt or interrupt or intrude on others. Working memory, so remembering a lesson or a phone number long enough to write it down, to do something useful with it, and cognitive flexibility. Considering someone else's viewpoint in the discussion, taking on prior knowledge, and applying it to a new situation to be okay if things don't go as planned, and realizing that many different things can be true at once. There are cognitive manifestations of EF, activating lateralization, pruning of synapses, neuroplasticity, and behavioral manifestations, what we can see. Frustration tolerance, planning for the future, reflecting, emotional regulation. So did you recognize any of these skills as challenges or deficits in yourself, your children, or your students? I hope my TikTok page brings you some useful information, tips, or tricks to address EF because.

Keywords: Dr. Abbey, psychologist, executive functioning, research, cognitive domains, interventions, long-term success, academics, socioeconomic status, positive citizenship, teacher preparation programs, parenting courses, therapists, coaching programs, accessibility, TikTok, EF, prefrontal cortex, task initiation, perseverance, flexibility, inhibiting automatic response, emotional regulation, conscious, goal-directed, inhibitory control, working memory, cognitive flexibility, neurological domains, lateralization, pruning of synapses, neuroplasticity, behavioral manifestations, frustration tolerance, planning, reflecting, deficits, challenges, students, information, tips, tricks.